# Occupancy Permit #

## Process Overview ##

![overview]

1. The applicant goes to Filipizen website and selects Occupancy Permit Application. The application will require the building permit number which will be retrieved by the system to be able to continue with the application process. If the building permit information is not found in the database, the applicant will click on send email which will be sent to the OBO email's address for inquiry on the building permit. The building permit information is populated by the building permit process or by capturing the information i.e. manually encoding existing building permits that already existed prior to this system.

2. After the applicant has filled up the online application, they will download and print the pre-filled application forms and sign it. They must take note of the application number generated by the system. Together with the other documentary requirments, they must place it in a package, or parcel to be sent to the OBO office through a courier. They MUST include the application number on the label outside the package.

3. Once the package is received by the OBO receiver, the receiver will encode the application number reference in the system. The OBO system will pull data from the web similar to the building permit process. Once received, the receiver will submit it to the requirement reviewer. 

4. The requirement reviewer will check the documentary requirements and checks it in the system. If there are findings, they will collect all findings and create a transmittal and emailed to the applicant. If there are no findings, they will submit it to the next step which is the OBO Coordinator.

5. The OBO coordinator will check if they have pending applications for inspection. The coordinator can still do some edits in the application, for example including evaluators which may not have been included in the application. Once an application selected is to be processed, the system will prompt the desired date and time of inspection. After submitting, the evaluators involved will be notified.

6. The inspection will be notified for the ff. roles - OBO Evaluators (depending on the requirement), CPDO (Zoning), BFP and RPT Assessor. Once received, they will view to open the application. Prior to inspection, they will sync it with their mobile inspection app. They will use this app to encode their findings and upload once they finish the inspection. The RPT Assessor can also view the tax declarations involved (from the building permit application) so they can match it with their records.     

7. After inspection, they will upload their findings in the mobile app to the system. These findings will be forwarded to the OBO Coordinator, who collects all findings and prepares a transmittal and email it to the applicant. If there are no findings, it is forwarded to the OBO Assessor to prepare the billing. In the case of BFP, they will include their required fees before submitting it. In the case of the RPT Assessor, they will create a new FAAS and tax declaration per each real property (building, machinery or equipments) found.

8. The OBO Assessor will compute the fees based on rules or can manually include fees for items that cannot be handled by the rules. After the assessment is approved, the billing is emailed to the applicant.

9. Once the applicant receives the email, they can opt to pay online (recommended) or through the cashier. Once successfully paid, the system automatically moves the document to the next step which is the permit issuance process. 

10. The BFP will issue the FSIC manually using their internal control numbers. The OBO will generate the Occupancy Permit and the Electrical Certificate(name of document to be clarified with Arch. Ton). After issuance of the occupancy permit, the system will automatically tag the corresponding RPT building records with the permit number. <i>(Note: this is manually encoded at present. We will create an RPT plugin that will disable this field from the assessors office so that it should be the OBO system to populate this info)</i>   

11. The RPT Assessor will also generate the list of approved tax declarations related to this permit and attach it to the system.  

12. The OBO Coordinator will generate the transmittal of the occupancy permit, the electrical certificate, FSIC and list of tax declartions. This will be emailed to the applicant. If the applicant requires it then the actual documents will be sent via courier.

## Proposed Mobile Interface ##


![mobile1]


![mobile2]


[overview]: ./images/occupancy/overview.png
[mobile1]: ./images/occupancy/mobile1.png
[mobile2]: ./images/occupancy/mobile2.png

